You guys.
Welcome back to the course so in this lecture I want to go over a really quick quick and dirty kind
of strategy that you can use to get better results from your freelancer and for your job postings.
So there's this one here at Sprint care we've actually tested with quite extensively and it's something
that we've done a lot of people who outsource frequently do not take advantage of and so it's something
that we think it's really crucial that if you're taking this course it's something that you try out
at least a couple of times.
So the strategy in this one is literally just whenever you are making a job posting always say it's
long term.
OK now let me explain why you do that and what I mean by that.
Typically when you're listing out your listing and you'll see later in the course and we go over things
like perks perks or things that you list in your job posting that are entice the freelancer to take
your job posting more seriously and to be more interested.
But when you go through that and you start thinking of perks one of the things you can always list is
you can say that it's long term.
Now the reason why we say this is a strategy is because it has a lot of beneficial effects but it's
also something that even if you're not looking to hire someone long term it's still a valid thing that
you can list and say.
Now first off if you say it's a long term project a freelancer or a freelance firm they're just going
to take it more seriously.
That's important.
You want your freelancers to take this seriously.
If they don't they're going to give you templates.
They're not going to pay attention to what you're asking and you're just going to get an overall lower
quality experience.
Now not only do they pay more attention to it you'll actually get more accurate prices and this is something
we've played around with and we even caught freelancers giving us two prices for virtually the same
thing.
One was lower when they thought it was long term.
Now to understand why this happens you need to understand why a freelancer likes a long term projects
and why they do not like one off projects it seems rather obvious.
But I think it's kind of important I understand what's going on here.
It's not just that long term means more money.
What it means is that they don't have to spend as much time looking for projects.
Now imagine you're a developer and you spend four hours in a day programming and getting paid for it
and you spend two hours trying to find another project.
So you just spent six hours working and you're only going to get paid for four hours.
That is something that freelancers and freelance firms hate having to deal with.
It's bigger for freelancers because they just don't want to spend time looking for projects and they
don't want to have to develop that as a separate skillset to what they're good at.
They want to focus on their craft.
Every time every hour they spend doing something else like acquiring clients is generally thought of
as wasted time it's not time for them to grow.
It's not time for them to get better what they're doing it's just not a good situation.
So if they can attach to you get a long term project or get follow on projects that changes the mental
calculus for them.
If you knew a project was a one off project you would probably bid higher because you have to factor
in the time it took to not only find the project bid on the project when the project but also established
the basic rapport get set up and get working with your employer.
So there's always an advantage to saying it's long term.
Now how do I explain that.
Every project is long term.
Well it's not necessarily that the project itself is long term it's that you're looking for a long term
relationship.
Whenever you've worked with someone you're going to be significantly more likely to work with them in
the future especially if you have a good experience with them.
Even if you had an okay experience you've already worked with them you know how fast they respond you
know how fast they get work done and you know exactly what they're good at and what they're not good
at.
That is almost always better than going into the pile and looking for another person you've never met.
You have no familiarity with.
So when I say long term project what I really mean is it's a long term relationship.
Even if this project does not extend you're always going to be one of the first people I come to if
I ever have a project that's similar to it.
Almost every scenario where I've hired someone had a good experience with them and the project didn't
work out.
I was able to find them another project that they could work on so they still get repeat work.
They still do not have to establish the rapport with me.
They have to re introduce themselves to whatever the new project is but it doesn't really matter.
They didn't have to find a client they've already found me.
I just pass them on to the next project.
So don't be squeamish when you use this term.
It's one of the best things you can put.
It's what freelancers really really look for.
They want long term clients and it's going to reflect that in your price.
When you say that.
So obviously keep in mind as long as you think you're going to be contracting something else out in
the future then chances are there's an opportunity for you to have a long term relationship with a contractor.
That's usually the case in 95 and the time.
OK I'll see you in the next lecture.